ACD-416 (#6)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: RetailSuiteAccounting/Integration/05_ManageCustomerSupplier.md

[!!Fakturierung](RetailSuiteFaktBase)  
[!!User Interface debtors/creditors](../UserInterface/02a_DebtorsCreditors.md)  

# Manage the customer/supplier

The *Accounting* module contains a function to create new customers and suppliers, and to enter all relevant information about them. This function is also available in the *Invoicing* module. This information is needed for both modules to operate.

> > [Info] Any customer/supplier information created, edited or deleted in the *Accounting* module will be also be created, edited or deleted in the *Invoicing* module, and vice versa. It may be necessary to refresh the page with the F5 key, though, to see the changes in the *Customer/supplier list* tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [Info] The customer and supplier list in the *Accounting* and in the *Invoicing* module are synchronized with each other. Therefore, it may be necessary to refresh the list to display any changes that have been made.
```

## Create a customer/supplier

You can create a customer/supplier that is not yet available in the system.

> 

Reviewer: Überlegen: Ist es sinnvoll zwei procedures zu machen: Eine für create a customer und eine für create a supplier?
Gleiches gilt für edit a customer/supplier...

#### Prerequisites

- The accounting is configured via the configuration wizard, see [Run the accounting wizard](./01_RunAccountingWizard.md).

> - A valid fiscal year is created, see [Create a fiscal year](./04_ManageFiscalYear.md#create-a-fiscal-year).

Reviewer: was hat das mit der Kunden/Lieferantenliste zu tun?

#### Procedure

*Accounting > Select the fiscal year > Settings > Tab DEBTORS/CREDITORS > Tab Create customer/supplier*

![Create a customer/supplier](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/CustomerSupplier/CreateCustomerSupplier.png "[Create a customer/supplier]")

> 1. Click the *Create debtor/creditor* drop-down list in the *Address/Contact* sub-tab and select the appropriate option (**Debtor (customer)/Creditor (supplier)**).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the *Create debtor/creditor* drop-down list in the *Address/Contact* sub-tab and select the appropriate option. The following options are available:
- **Debtor (customer)**: Select this option to create a customer.
- **Creditor (supplier)**: Select this option to create a supplier.
```

> 2. Enter a number for the customer/supplier in the *Debtor/creditor no.* field or leave it empty for the next free number.

Reviewer: Was ist der Standardfall? Ich nehme an, für gewöhnlich sollte man das Feld leer lassen und nur in Ausnahmefällen eine bestimmte Nummer eintragen, oder?

>   > [Info] Make sure that the number entered is within the valid range (10000-69999 for customers and 70000-99999 for suppliers). Otherwise, a warning message will be displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > [Info] If you enter a number, make sure that the number is within the valid range: 10000-69999 for customers and 70000-99999 for suppliers. Otherwise, a warning message will be displayed.
```

> 3. Enter a short name in the *Short name* field. This field is compulsory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter a short name in the *Short name* field. This field is mandatory.
```

> 4. Enter a company name in the *Company* field.
> 
> 5. Enter a surname in the *Surname* field.
> 
>   > [Info] Note that either the *Company* or the *Surname* field must be filled out to be able to create a new customer/supplier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If desired, enter the company name in the *Company* field.

5. If desired, enter the surname in the *Surname* field.

  > [Info] Note that either the *Company* or the *Surname* field must be filled out to create a new customer/supplier.
```

> 6. Enter any other relevant customer/supplier information in the corresponding fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. If desired, enter any other relevant customer/supplier information in the corresponding fields.
```

7. Click the [SAVE] button.  

> A pop-up window is displayed to confirm that the customer/supplier has been created. The newly created customer/supplier is displayed in the *Customer/supplier list* tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A pop-up window is displayed to confirm that the customer/supplier has been created. The new customer/supplier is displayed in the *Customer/supplier list* tab.
```
Bild vom pop-up fenster?

## Edit a customer/supplier

> You can edit an existing customer/supplier, for example if a setting must be changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can edit a customer or supplier, for example, if certain data need to be changed.
```

#### Prerequisites

- The accounting is configured via the configuration wizard, see [Run the accounting wizard](./01_RunAccountingWizard.md).

> - A valid fiscal year is created, see [Create a fiscal year](./04_ManageFiscalYear.md#create-a-fiscal-year).

Reviewer: Ist das wirklich ne Voraussetzung?

> - A customer/supplier is created, see [Create a customer/supplier](#create-a-customer-supplier).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- At least one customer or supplier is created, see [Create a customer/supplier](#create-a-customer-supplier).
```

#### Procedure

*Accounting > Select the fiscal year > Settings > Tab DEBTORS/CREDITORS > Tab Customer/supplier list*

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Accounting > Select the fiscal year > Settings > Tab DEBTORS/CREDITORS > Tab Customer list*
*Accounting > Select the fiscal year > Settings > Tab DEBTORS/CREDITORS > Tab Supplier list*
```

![Edit a customer/supplier](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/CustomerSupplier/EditCustomerSupplier.png "[Edit a customer/supplier]")

> 

Reviewer: Info einfügen, dass abhängig davon, ob zuvor ein Kunde oder Lieferant erstellt worden ist, auch nur die Kunden oder Lieferantenliste angezeigt wird.

1. Double click on the existing customer/supplier to be edited.   

> A new tab opens with the customer/supplier number. The existing data for the selected customer/supplier are displayed in the corresponding fields in the *Address/Contact* sub-tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Customer/Supplier* tab with the corresponding customer/supplier number is displayed. By default, the *Address/Contact* sub-tab is preselected. The data for the selected customer/supplier are displayed in the corresponding fields.
```

  > [Warning] Be aware that any changes made to an existing customer/supplier will overwrite the existing values.

> 2. Edit the fields as appropriate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Edit the desired fields in the *Address/Contact* sub-tab.
```

> 

Reviewer: Add additional step:
```suggestion
3. If desired, switch to another sub-tab to edit the corresponding data.

  > [Info] Repeat step **2** and **3** until you have edited the data as desired.
```

> 3. Click the [SAVE] button.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click the [SAVE] button.   
```

> A pop-up window is displayed to confirm that the customer/supplier has been edited. The edited customer/supplier displays the changes in the *Customer/supplier list* tab.

Reviewer: s.o. -> anpassen

>   > [Info] It may be necessary to refresh the page with the F5 key to see the changes in the *Customer/supplier list* tab.

Reviewer: Wenn das nötig ist, würde ich daraus direkt noch nen Step machen:

5. Press **F5** to initialize the Core1 Platform and to apply the changes.

## Delete a customer/supplier

> You can delete an existing customer/supplier, for example if it is no longer applicable.

Reviewer: passt applicable auf Personen? Hört sich für mich etwas seltsam an. Vielleicht lieber was schreiben

```suggestion
To maintain the customer and supplier list clear and up-to-date, you can delete a customer or supplier, if it is no longer relevant.
```

#### Prerequisites

- The accounting is configured via the configuration wizard, see [Run the accounting wizard](./01_RunAccountingWizard.md).

> - A valid fiscal year is created, see [Create a fiscal year](./04_ManageFiscalYear.md#create-a-fiscal-year).

Reviewer: Ist das wirklich eine Voraussetzung?

> - A customer/supplier is created, see [Create a customer/supplier](#create-a-customer-supplier).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  At least one customer or supplier is created, see [Create a customer/supplier](#create-a-customer-supplier).
```

#### Procedure

*Accounting > Select the fiscal year > Settings > Tab DEBTORS/CREDITORS > Tab Customer/supplier list*

> 

Reviewer: s.o. gleiches mit customer list/ supplier list wie bei edit.

> ![Delete a customer/supplier](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/CustomerSupplier/DeleteCustomerSupplier.png "[Delete a customer/supplier]")

Reviewer: Kann ich hier nicht den gleichen Screenshot nehmen wie bei Edit?

> 1. Double click on the existing customer/supplier to be deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Double click the customer/supplier to be deleted.
```

>   > [Warning] Be aware that the existing customer/supplier will be deleted permanently.

Reviewer: erst nach schritt 2

2. Click the [DELETE] button.  

> The selected customer/supplier is deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The selected customer or supplier is deleted.
```

> 

Reviewer: Hier fehlt ein schritt - bei mir kommt noch ein fenster, in dem ich das löschen bestätigen muss...
